Well, brothers, let's open our Bibles, and let's read again our text for today, 1 Corinthians chapter 10
and verse 23. It says all things are lawful, but not all things are advantageous.
And then you notice it goes on to say, all things are lawful, but not all things build up.
Let each one keep seeking not his own advantage, but that of the other person.
Now, what is Paul trying to tell us here? In the 1975 watchtower commenting on these two verses,
this is what the watchtower said. Within the framework of Christian law, there is a wide
latitude of action, and the Christian has to decide many matters according to his Christian
conscience, but he must also consider the conscience as of others. Not all things build up either
himself or others. When I was a point, there are many, many areas of life where there is not
a specific law that governs our action as Christians. We have to use Bible principles
and the wonderful gift of the conscience that Jehovah God has given us.
But most often, we tend to think of the conscience as something that prevents us from doing what
is wrong. In fact, maybe we tend to think of it as being like the smoke alarm when there's just
that slightest hint of smoke that alarm goes off to protect us, to signal that something is wrong,
something needs to be done. Well, it's true. Our well-trained conscience can alert us when we're
about to enter into a course that could cause us danger. But if our conscience is really well-trained,
according to the thinking of our Heavenly Father, Jehovah, it will be able to do even more than that.
Now, what do we have in mind? Well, let's consider an example of King David when he had to flee
from Jerusalem at the time of the revolt of Absalom. Now, let's go to 2 Samuel, chapter 17.
Now, as you're looking this up, 2 Samuel, chapter 17, you'll remember that down here in verse 27,
three faithful men came to know that David and some of his men were out there in the wilderness.
Now, what did they do? Look at verse 27. As soon as David came to Mahaneam,
show me the son of Nehash from Rabah of the Ammonites, maker the son of Amio from Lodibar,
and Barzilli, the Giliadite from Rogilim, brought beds, basins, clay pots, wheat, barley,
flour, roasted grain, broad beans, lentils, parched grain, honey, butter, sheep, and cheese.
They brought all of this out for David and the people with him to eat.
For they said, now, notice this, the people are hungry and tired and thirsty in the wilderness.
Now, what's the point? You see, these men came to know about David and his men being out there
in the wilderness with no supplies. Now, how did that affect them? Well, their conscience began
to work and it showed them they needed to do something to help those men. Now, when you look at
that list of things, it's obvious they didn't just send one or two things, but their conscience moved
them to really do something kind, to do something generous, to do something good, to help them.
Now, consider also helping David was risky. Absalom was more than willing to kill people who
were going to support David. So, it took a risk of even their own safety, but these men,
because of their good conscience, were moved to do the right thing, the good thing, the generous
thing. Now, what do we learn from that? Well, a well-trained conscience will not just simply
prevent us from doing the wrong thing, but it has the power to move us to do what's right,
to do what's kind, what's generous, what's loyal to our brothers and to Jehovah.
When out Jesus also taught this lesson, and let's look at the example that Jesus taught in this
parable. Now, of course, we always used to call it the parable of the good Samaritan, but now we call
it the parable of the neighborly Samaritan. I'm still getting used to that myself, but Luke
chapter 10, and let's just remind ourselves of some of the details about this. So, you remember
first of all, in verse 30, this man was going from Jerusalem to Jericho, and he fell victim to
robbers, and verse 30 says that they beat him, and they left him half dead on the road. Now, look
at verse 31. It says here that a priest was going by on the road, and he saw this man laying on
the road, half dead, and what did he do? It says he crossed the street. He went to the other side
and passed by, as though that man was not even there. But now look at verse 32,
here comes a Levite, and he sees him also, but what does he do? Just exactly the same thing. He
crosses the road and passes by to avoid having to even look at this man that was in distress. What can
you say about those two men? Their conscience was not working at all, was it? But now what about
the Samaritan? Verse 33 says that when he saw this man, he was moved with pity. And what did he do?
Verse 34 says, he approached him. He bandaged his wounds. He poured oil and wine on them. He put
the man on his own animal. He brought him to an end. He took care of him. He took out money. He
gave it to the innkeeper. He said, take care of him. Whatever you spend besides this, I'll come back
and I'll give it to you. I'll pay you. Now what do we know about this man who was a Samaritan?
Obviously, his conscience was working, and it told him what was the right thing to do? What was
the good thing, the generous thing, the hopeful thing to do for this man? Well, what's the point?
This good conscience, if it's well-trained by Bible principles and by the thinking of our God,
Jehovah, will do so much more than just prevent us from entering into a wrong course. It will stimulate
us to do the right thing, the generous thing, the kind thing. Now how can we use this information
in the midst today of this coronavirus pandemic? Well, of course, no doubt all of us right now
are feeling some measure of anxiety and stress. As this goes on week after week, having to be in our
room, sheltering in place, and so on, it's not an easy situation for any of us. In one country
in Europe that's been very hard hit by the pandemic, a sister was in the hospital for cancer
treatment when the lockdown was enforced. Now, her daughter and son-in-law are at Bethel. They're
very, very close to the hospital, but they were not able to go and visit her because of the situation.
Now, as the memorial was approaching, this dear sister was so worried that she was going to have to
celebrate the memorial all by herself in the hospital. But can you imagine how touched she was
when she found out that a sister who worked in the hospital had very kindly decided to
travel to the hospital when it was not her shift just for the sole purpose of being with our
sister and celebrating the memorial. She dressed up in all the appropriate protective gear and then
enjoyed the memorial with our sister who was alone at the hospital. How beautiful.
In the same country in Europe, the brothers told about a young brother who works also in a hospital.
And of course, because the country has been so hard hit and some of our brothers and sisters
have died as a result of the pandemic, this dear brother has made a point of going to visit
these various brothers and sisters who are dying to offer them comfort because their own family
members are not able to come to the hospital and be with them at that time. Can you imagine how
comforting it's been for those family members to know that this young brother has taken the
initiative to be with them, comfort them, show them love in such a difficult time. Well, brothers,
what do we learn from all of this? We are in a time of increased stress, of increased anxiety.
We all have the power to help others through acts of kindness and deeds of goodness that show
generosity and love. Let's be motivated by our good conscience to do those good and kind and
generous things that really show that we're imitators of our Heavenly Father, Jehovah.
And as we do, we're going to find that our stress will be relieved. And at the same time,
we'll show that we're eager to do things that are not only lawful, but also that are advantageous.